ended up waiting 15 minutes for and
wreaked it and up and that's a lot of
idle time all right I started recording
so this is a thing that's reasonable
yeah I I BFS in web browsers and GUI
working group the double the double we
think today I got one of those to
anybody it's the one so so a couple of
like pre points I am sort of currently
the de facto champion of a working group
that has no working group in that we've
got this PM GUI slash in web browsers
crossover so in lieu of anyone else
wanting to write lots of github issues I
am putting myself forward as the schmuck
who will lead the github issue charge to
great glorious gooey future but the idea
is that maybe we should there was some
chewing of throwing right at the
beginning of this in web browsers GUI
working group existence and over
everyone from core was like don't have
weekly meetings because then you'll have
a hundred weekly meetings and then you
you you won't get anything done I think
we're at the other end of the spectrum
where we don't have enough face time
yeah and we're not really a team and I
would like to see more of your faces so
I kind of pestered David yes to make
this a thing and everyone seemed to
think of it and okay I did so here we
are but it's not it's not too late to
gather this call if you're panicking
yeah like if we just for Kyle's benefit
I think I I'm pasting those Google
related issues yeah and recent
discussions very good all right it's the
water good so just just as a preamble I
would really like to check in with you
all Lydell I want I want people to tell
me how they're feeling
I want people to tell me what their
workload
is I don't want it to take very long
like two sentences on where your head is
at right now Lytle can you kick us off
yeah so like the first quarter is
nearing its end and obviously I am far
behind with my okie arse
like mostly the number one okay
like he result I hoped from this quarter
was this addressing from the distributed
web yep I tried to start it like like
last week but I failed to synchronize
with flowers okay
we realized that we have nearly the same
item and so we just I just want to
coordinate with flowers so that there's
no duplicate data fault
especially that he created the outline
and I suspect he already had some text
so this may be pushed let's be realistic
you might like it may be pushed it's not
like we did nothing this quarter toward
that goal there were multiple
discussions regarding protocols and
stuff like that that's like my only
concern but it has the highest priority
and what not addressed apart from the
odds the ipfs compile it's quite well I
am bit skittish when it comes to making
care final release
III like III I'm not able to put my
finger what's wrong but I think there is
like something like regression maybe may
be related to my local machine but I
suspect the user interface works faster
in the last stable release so before I
make final release I'll probably do a
release candidate this week okay
just and suggest encourage others
probably today on their own hands
quickly
encourage others to yeah test it before
we push it and before I make a blog post
advertising how wonderful it is you
probably should be sure it is and we may
decide to push the blog post one release
later okay that's fun like my idea is
that we if we deliver a better sharing
that we discussed recently that might be
a much better experience and but much
better reason to advertise
however like this release was very
technical way about that window ipfs
object and but that is ipfs so I'm a
little bit torn between advertising this
like release for developers and maybe we
want to make the actual stable release
when we have those sharing can't upload
UX provements sorry for like rambling
but just like those are two things I am
constant right now and fair enough
it's not all on your shoulders I think
the thing to do is is make yourself a
release checklist which includes beta
testing from the rest of us and if we
all give it the thumbs up you know it's
not you don't have to feel like you're
the sole gatekeeper of the integrity of
the project yeah I think like I already
created the checklist so it's like just
add an item derp sure sorry
that's a good idea yeah I can go next
I the my my feeling was Jessica I get a
sense of like our people exhausted or
stressed or happy but Lydell has gone in
full and has reported on essentially
what he's been working on that's okay
but my check-in was gonna be a bit more
like I'm feeling pretty positive because
I I started off on the research for the
gooey stuff thinking that it might have
been a waste of time and I now I'm
pretty confident that it was very much
needed at least it's helped me figure
out a bunch of stuff that is missing in
my head
and I hope it's useful for you guys to
see yeah and and I've totally kind of
invented the plan of action and no one's
kind of said this is terrible yet so I'm
taking that as de facto thumbs-up from
everyone so I'm feeling okay I get there
how are you feeling
you're also muted okay okay no I in this
quarter I'm a brand booked for a PFS and
I'm happy that we have done this because
it's very important for EPF s to have a
brand book for free yeah and next one we
had agree in now in Photoshop but maybe
the next Q quarter we will have in in
Cartmel
and I made the viv very frame the first
wave frame that's as we know we will
need another another round and this is
the next thing that I I will do now the
next reference straight it how are you
feeling good that's good
okay um Kyle how you did what you
working on
hi can you hear me still okay I just I
bet my nice microphone I forgot the plug
for it you know USB sees a difficult
anyway um let's see
I so this week I was happened to be done
in Austin and I talked with something
on the dot project about you know hey
you know if you wanted web browser
integration what would what would you
want right like the idea was to sort of
like find the sort of like common ground
for like what everyone in the space
needs to do you know distributed web
implementations inside web browsers and
after I got their notes I went over to
Portland and I visited with two people
at Mozilla Gazala and Dietrich and
talked with them a little bit about that
and the consensus that we sort of put
together it was that we should
definitely get everyone on some kind of
a mailing list or something and and and
since that we can have a place to
collaborate on these issues um some of
the low-hanging stuff was the fact that
you know WebRTC doesn't work very well
with like hundreds of connections and
stuff right like it's designed for two
video streams not like you know
BitTorrent so that so that that's one of
the things there actually is a UDP
socket implementation in Firefox believe
it or not because of Firefox OS but it's
like you know under whatever and so on
and goes all has actually been writing
something about manifesto of like what
needs to go into the browser's himself
which is really into like sockets stuff
socket was what I got from them what
address mark and you or API obviously
would be a nice one and like you know a
few other things the idea is just to
sort of like you know make sure that
we're not just talking to ourselves in
the neck like about what these needs are
like trying to see how we can get the
browser's in and so that's what I did
this week I've not sat down quite in
finished writing everything up and
creating the mailing list and stuff but
we did actually the amount on this idea
actually was part of an LKR i'm not
exactly sure how that happened it might
have been my fault but anyway yeah we're
gonna be able to do that this week so
I'm gonna get send an invite so you
you all and and then you can be on that
list and we can have start having
conversations directly with the browser
people and with other stakeholders in
this space like you know like you know
the secure spell about people and you
know anyone else that you know the what
new for us right but anyone that needs
this stuff - because we're all kind of
trying to build the same thing which is
a peer-to-peer stuff in browsers right
and so that's what I did this week and
yeah and also as far as I quickly
examine see you guys in a while you've
done really amazing work on the desktop
stuff it's really nice um you know yeah
I love that you're looking at the GUI
side of things because to me like
graphical interfaces are like the way
forward eventually like I see this
fundamentally is going to eventually has
to become an interface problem and so
you know the better interfaces are the
closer I think you'll get to something
that people will start using on a
regular basis so very cool one of the
other okay ours that is sat very
unfinished in my on my laptop is the
jumping-off point for the conversations
with multiple browser vendors and peer
to peer stakeholders the are we
distributed yet calm web site which is I
think was going to be a bit of a eye
candy initially a record just an eye
candy kind of make the point in a
pleasing way and link to the most
relevant pressing issues like as you
said there's some easy ones like if web
RTC bugs were fixed things would get
better if we're but see performance has
improves things would get better and
then drifting in some more specific
discussions of api's that we want to see
so that so this what you were you done
this week will really help really yeah
really helps that I want to take a look
at that site because like my and I
talked to goes all a little bit about
this about the idea of like us making a
sort of manifesto site right this sort
of like opening idea as a public
discussion and as in like there's a web
page it's like hey are we distributed
yet yeah this is what we need in
browsers oh yeah this is challenge you
know it's something like that and then
have a mailing list link on that and
then like any documentation that comes
up related to that just a weekend yet
these ideas across you know I mean we're
really doing is finishing html5 damn it
for Fred on the the pitch for oh we
disagree yet I'll come right now there's
no reason why it can't be that it I
think it was the way I'm thinking about
it at the minute is to be something like
is service workers ready calm but
slightly I'm or hey and Rick and but so
that was very focused on some explicit
specs that already exist and then issues
to various browser manufacturers to say
like either they're enthusiastic about
building is they've already committed so
that kind of that but we can have
uniform we can add in a flavor of
manifesto to the mmm to the beginning
that's beautiful keep doing that that's
absolutely perfect and like the whole
you know I was kind of half joking with
the manifesto thing but you know just
you know like a little copy stuff that
maybe here and there but I'm definitely
so how far away through our far are you
with the should I take a look at it I
not very far tool beyond I've got a I
got a sense if it's gonna fit together
I've I've got a skeleton there but the
hardest part honestly for me right now
is wording is the precise sure but
approachable wording for each issue yeah
because the we've got screeds all over
the place about all the things we need
but mmm trying to do it in a way that's
kind of we could put on the home like
this is the definition of the problem
yeah but I think what I was chained to
the Lydell about was I just need to get
the skeleton up and then people with far
more detailed knowledge of the meek and
tell me where I've gone wrong and make
better better words yeah yeah for sure
is it just like a static HTML site or
that's what it's gonna be right now yeah
it may get fancier and get driven from
github issues at some point but not just
make it sounds perfect exactly say bomb
I but so yeah definitely playing us when
you get a chance to write up any other
stuff you found out I well thank you
so and reek how are you doing
you you missed a quick check-in from
everyone I had intended it to be an
emotional check in to see how the spirit
level of the team was energy levels at
whatnot but it's been mostly taken as an
opportunity to tell us what you did last
week so you can pick either either path
you can merge it into one but Enric how
you did I'm fine nice
anything interesting book fix wise you
can that you can do what preview PDF
super cool you forget that you're
talking to the ipfs in web browsers and
GUI team this is exactly what we want to
hear know what one other question for
you I'm aware that you also have other
things pressing on your time what kind
of availability if you got kind of for
the next couple of weeks
you 50% on IPA finesse percent free
because this is nice don't forget don't
forget to read your books yeah okay oh
[Music]
there is another person on the call
Jared who I not sure aware of who that
is maybe that's just a casual observer
or maybe they want to participate hey
Jared Oh mostly to observe yes okay all
right call on github is admin data roads
so if you've seen anything for me under
that name okay break it well I hope you
enjoy so and if anyone has any other
issues they want to discuss on this call
I will happily divert everyone's time
and attention to the discussion of
scoping the existing ipfs GUI apps are
we happy with the existing scoping does
anyone share my enthusiasm for
or reviewing the existing scoping so I
think you've all seen and I've said it
enough times there's a bunch issues on
the PM ipfs key website that was my take
on the existing feature set that seems
to be important I may have missed some
things out but I think it's pretty
comprehensive there's like the if anyone
thinks
if anyone any specific questions now
would be a good time to raise them
before I get a bit more abstract about
app scoping anybody nope okay right so
what it strikes me the thing that I was
saying we're at the beginning of the
call is I'm concerned that we're
reviewing the scope of the IP invest GUI
apps and just to confirm that I'd be
less desktop like putting ipfs as a
native integration to your operating
system
I'd give as companion the web extension
and what is currently called web UI
which is the HTML dashboard for
you
it necessarily has to diverge because it
has
cases I don't know that what I'm most
interested in right now is a discussion
of is there any value in reviewing
desktop as a minimal menu bar and
expanding rebuilding web UI as whatever
it needs to be this yeah oh sorry I was
just gonna say um you know so I haven't
been too pretty on the scoping stuff
here so I'm not exactly sure what
direction with I do this desktop so I
just if I sounded insane just ignore me
sorry you know I was thinking one of the
things that sort of been interesting to
me personally is um that the desktop is
sort of a potential jumping-off point
for doing sorts of like interesting
things related to like demoing like
security origin level like Windows that
like load web pages and stuff like that
right and um you know using the lucky
uses electron as I and and and and and
electrons just a chrome window and so
like it's a pretty short step to do
things like um you know be able to load
like ipfs you know content like in a
security origin in a in a window that's
like similar to the way browsers work I
mean it I'm just not not saying this is
a web browser but like I'm saying that
you could put something like this into I
see it as desktop right some flavor of
this R you can like load web pages or
something like that it might be kind of
interesting to see if you could like use
it that way or not but I don't know if
there's like the will or the interest in
that idea or not to do that but it just
seems like an interesting branching off
point you know we can do things like IP
FS colon slash slash which we can't do
with regular browsers right yep the the
conflict the conflict that led me to
this bit of work was really a
frustration around the discussion there
was Agata stands and detailed designs
for a rebuild of a reboot of the desktop
UI and but we hadn't done the kind of
prior
opening work of what app should do what
and how do we want the features to be
implemented so that's kind of how we
come to be here and there is definitely
an opportunity to say what we think
desktop scope should be the specific
conflict that I'm seeing is we
simultaneously want desktop to be a
minimal menu bar application and also
solve all our problems from a UI
perspective we wanted to have a file
browser and there's a there's a pretty
tidy file browser implementation in the
existing one thanks to Henrique but it
it's always gonna struggle because it's
trying to fit itself into a smaller box
as possible and give all the possible
functionalities that you might want from
a file browser so I really want to I
really want to commit to one path or the
other for desktop like it should we
should either be building like a Dropbox
alike minimal drop-down menus that then
hands off major functionality to a web
UI that's separate or desktops should be
a proper desktop app and screen real
estate shouldn't be a pressing concern
but at the moment with the design
feedback that we were getting people
seem to want it to be both to do both
things and that seemed like an
unrealistic expectation to me it seemed
like a cause of friction that we could
just decide our way through like okay
desktop should be the beginners guide in
which case it shouldn't just be a tray a
tray menu like yeah that's a different
problem I mean yeah I mean deaf from my
from my perspective like the ipfs you
know desktop app is going to become VIP
at best app at some point in X like to
you know a few years or something like
to me like right I don't think I don't
think it's practical for like people to
like download a UNIX daemon that like is
like running like kind of command-line
and like if we want to start getting
like mask ins mass adoption you know at
some point we have to have a graphical
interface that works well for them or
integrate into things that they use
everyday then and so like you know the
neat thing about desktop is that it lets
us get that that massive more users like
on a non super professional basis
before that happens before we start
integrating in browsers and stuff like
that right
um and and so it's I mean to me like I I
would like it when people go to IP
festivai oh there's a button they click
and they installs an application that
they can that mom you know like and and
that works right now for UNIX
programmers you know it's great for
everyone down here in Silicon Valley but
you know I'd love to see I'd love to see
like you know everyone else be able to
use this technology to and so like
that's why I'm so interested in the
browser stuff and why I'm so interested
in the desktop guys they've done amazing
work on it's gotten so much better and
um and and so that's sort of my thought
right and yeah - me I guess in that
dichotomy of like should be minimal
versus desktop application I think it's
just I think it should be a desktop
application you know I think it should
have like a GUI I think it's just have
like controls and like browsers and I
think that it should be able to pop up
in the web page and you know that whole
thing right like yeah that's that's
exactly the feedback come looking for
and that what I'm trying to do is unpick
the tension between like I think as a
group we need to decide it's either a
maximal desktop app or it's a minimal
tray app and your vote counts but this
is the kind of thing that if you have
strong opinions about it or if you have
questions about it or you don't kind of
understand what it is I'm trying to get
out then the call is a good place to ask
if you have strong opinions about it you
can state them now or feel free to drop
them on the scoping issue because this
is exactly what I want to bottom out
until we as a group decide this we can't
make useful progress Jared did you have
your hand up different yeah I did so I
guess it's kind of opinions that lead to
questions potentially but just general
I'm kind of new to everything so stop me
if I'm saying something wrong by
different I see ipfs in general as you
know trying to develop the new
distributed web it's kind of in some
sense replacing the web but keeping all
the good stuff so I kind of see
JavaScript ipfs implementation in
there is kind of a gateway between the
two and so you can basically make
current web infrastructure apps but have
IPSS backends utilizing that toolset so
then I see that any sort of desktop app
could utilize that gateway
infrastructure to join the two and I'm
kind of wondering if IPL B is ever
intended to not only undergird the IPS s
block infrastructure and some of I P ns
but also almost provide like a memory
object store similar to other JSON
object stores that currently exist exist
for the web and in that way high ipfs
infrastructure to real-time JavaScript
apps on web browsers in general and and
sort of tie IPSS to existing desktop
applications as in web browsers via
those mechanisms
instead of going full like full native
development Thursday
yeah yeah okay so Mike I think that yeah
a little bit so just quickly I mean the
idea of long term is that we want to be
in web browsers like that's the general
approach is like you know get into
Firefox get into Chrome the the problem
is that the interfaces that we require
and are from the browser manufacturers
in order to do that are not currently
available for example socket support
doesn't exist which means you have to
use WebRTC which is not designed for
hundreds of connections with your
networks
everyone's having the same problems with
that mr. beauty web space the other
thing so there's just like a few things
like that like security origins like is
an issue when you have like pathogen
security problem you know that which
doesn't exist yet it's suspect but
nobody's implanted it and so um the idea
is just sort of that this could be sort
of a demo of like things the way that's
the stuff
work until we get to that point where we
get more browser buy-in but no like long
term like that's the goal yeah is like
implementation in the browsers like that
we just don't exactly quite yet have the
sort of tools we need from them to
actually be able to accomplish these
goals yeah so you could do so I was more
railing about the the question of the
day for me is we've been tasked with
reviewing and improving the
implementation of the existing IP FS
apps themselves so this is a slightly
separate question to how do people make
apps that make use of ipfs but it's all
relevant just just to get back to the
question of the scope of the existing IP
FS desktop app the question on the table
is should it be minimal menu tray should
it be maximal I think there's some
leaning towards it being maximal it the
reason why the scoping isn't limited to
what should we do to desktop though is
there is also the open question of what
should happen to the ipfs web UI
implementation so this is the question
of that there was a right at the start
of this projects life there was an issue
raised that someone said my shoes we
just abandon web UI so there's a there's
been a slight if the studies exist I
don't haven't seen them and what i want
to see is a bit more kind of who at
these apps for and as like my feeling
right now is web UI is trying to trying
to serve everyone and not succeeding
particular whether that's serving anyone
not to denigrate the work done they're
just that it needs a lot of love and
attention and it seems to be given that
it's bundled with go idea fess it seems
to be positioned as a dashboard manager
app for
for controlling an IP FS note but at
quite a low level but then it includes
high level fancy features like a
spinning 3d globe that suggests where
peers are and things like that so if we
start making desktop and more maximal at
what what should we be doing with web UI
what's the scope of web UI does it still
have a place does it still exist current
feeling is yes it should still exist
it's kind of nice to have a easy to
playable admin visual admin console for
a gateway for an IP FS mode but it'd be
interesting to kind of pin a primary
user story to each app like who are we
trying to serve so I think as Kyle was
suggesting for the everyman for most
people the desktop app should be the
go-to thing and it should be super easy
to use and have a bunch of baked in
expectations about your use cases and it
should make those super easy yeah yeah
one of the things I actually like oh you
had your hand up first always Oh like
that one was for Jared's questions like
I had a depression that we can work
around limitations that are currently in
web browsers regarding like local data
storage that or distributed application
can use you you just cannot rely on the
local storage provided by the browser
because because of the security
parameter which does not exist right and
if you use window ipfs object instead on
your distributed up then you can like
rely on scoping and security parameter
that we provide in browser extension
like that window the ipfs does not exist
in any browser Negi just yet so yeah
you you are on the call this is the
bleeding-edge discussion takes that
advice as the direction things are going
in
it's like a leading edge shortcut yeah
sure if you if you need so but if you
need to yeah and I just wanna say
quickly that in the context of I'm
actually kind of indifferent to like
whether it's a desktop application or
it's the browser plugins or something
but just like when I got IP I said I oh
but peoples have the ability to install
this stuff right like this bill install
like an ad ipfs web browser like add
print and install the desktop it's
nothing right like that whole idea right
it just happens so as a tiny tiny quick
win Lydell posted an issue that is we
can now we can now instruct chrome to
recommend installing a chrome add on
from any arbitrary web page so we can
have a kind of click button on our give
us though that's like you should get
you're using Chrome you should hit this
button and install the Chrome Matalin
and that is like you know that's like a
couple of hours work that would pay
dividends I think we're only holding off
really because as Lyle said at the
beginning of call we just want to get
the there's been loads of changes that
haven't been released and so we'd like
to get soft launch that make sure we're
happy with it
and then we can update the website to
instruct people on how to install the
plug-in but I think as we're all kind of
aware there's bigger problems than just
getting people to install the plug-in at
the moment because we still don't quite
the plug-in is like pointing to web UI
and things like that and can't be used
without also going to install a binary
so right yeah um yeah that's that's a
problem yeah like that we need to figure
out how to either well we either need to
use JSI PFS or we need to bundle it you
know i'm i misspoke you're right that
plugin totally works now because we
bundled jazz like DFS with it I think
we're just nervous about performance
that's a really good thing to be nervous
about yeah exactly
yeah yeah we're we're
you know well we have you play me have
you played around with it like the
integration of GSI VFS with the plugin
like have you had any personal like use
cases like if you if you want to upload
file a file and you don't have a locally
run ad man
you can perfectly fine upload the file
and it will be opened on the public
gateway yes the short stories that
uploads work fine only you that we
cannot present the downloads in Firefox
and Chrome on main drive it's this very
little peer-to-peer about it at the
moment yeah yeah so you know if we had a
browser window or something like it for
the deaths of application then we could
do it there right obviously some others
absolutely so I'm pretty keen to keep
the conversation focused on scoping of
apps and I take a point with whether
it's a web UI or a desktop or how it
works or whether it's a plug-in
something needs to be the entry point
something needs to be the de-facto
beginners beginners app so so my
personal opinion it's like the the
focusing on desktop being as small as
possible is a it's probably a false goal
like it's not it shouldn't pretend to be
a menu tray anymore and we need to
review the designs for desktop if that
if that but I'd like to see people fill
out their their thoughts or at least
just +1 existing thoughts on the scoping
issue if that is the will of the group
because it is a change from the
direction that desktop is going in at
the moment at the moment desktop is
trying very hard to be as small as
possible but isn't it's not tiny it's
just a very weird small desktop app
[Music]
thanks portal to address titles question
earlier and what you just actually asked
about so my sort of mental gateway model
of the browser being the gateway into
new life EFS stuff that could be easily
applied and some of the browser
limitations workaround by having it the
browser essentially be what web UI is
kind of now where the browser is the
main interface to local IP SS node
configuration and data and it can open
channels on the local daemon rather than
through the browser so that that would
point to the desktop being kind of the
daemon monitor in the taskbar and all
the UI happening through the browser to
the local intent yes that that's the
other route that we can examines there's
there was a call for potentially
considering removing web UI or replacing
it and something else there's a problem
with deploying web UI with go ipfs which
makes it harder for us to improve web UI
outside of the go ipfs release schedule
so that's not very good
Lytle has repeatedly mentioned that
bundling a web UI with the go demon has
led to an unlimited security issues with
other people's deployments because they
immediately try and open the api ports
and to make the web UI available to them
on other notes so like bundling this if
HTML
viewer with go seems to set a bad
precedent or at least would need a lot
of it needs reconsidered from an author
point of view it needs a definition of
what its primary use case is like is it
an admin tool for someone administering
a shared a shared gateway or is it a
jumping off point to the rest of to all
of the wonders of ifs is it the
introductory app it seems like no it's
not that David Diaz did you just join us
I don't know I might be a hacker right
I'm sure
good morning mr. Diaz how are you doing
about that I didn't want to hurt you I
just I could only join now that's okay
my problem I'm talking about apps coping
I'm just keen to hear what people think
my concern right now is that web UI is
prime value is more as a node
administration tool for people operating
shared gateways and less as a
interesting tool for people who are
desktop users my bigger concern is that
I don't have a clear sense of which what
user story what user goal each app is
intended to mostly fulfill so we're
reaching consensus on the idea that
desktop is it would be of highest value
if it was the one true place to point
all casual users you know and it
included introductory material that
seems to be coming across and no one has
spoken against that which would which
solves a few design questions you know
we don't we don't have to make it as
small as possible if it's job is to
demonstrate what ipfs is capable of and
be an educational tool then it is
implicitly not just a menu tray
application that seems like an easy one
but that hasn't been defined yet so I
owe these sort of people with drops
their thoughts on the issue that is
about scoping so then the net the other
side of scoping is what what is web UI
purpose and how does it relate to a
maximal desktop map and a minimal ipfs
companion browser plug-in I'm
deliberately not really discussing the
purpose of the browser plug-in because
it seems pretty obvious and not really
worth debating like it's its purpose is
to handle ipfs links in the browser and
get you to ipfs functionality in your
normal browsing routine as quickly as
possible but we are left with this like
what is web UI purpose versus desktops
purpose
does anyone have any thoughts on that so
on the web UI versus desktop the web UI
was initially created to get people
amazed with ipfs like not everyone would
go into the terminal and play with it
but when you for example showed them the
globe and all the nodes in a globe
people typically got really excited yeah
we never really crossed the barrier of
making it easy ball though and so it was
more hey you selling that people Snowden
you're like this really nice dashboard
and don't really use it because it
breaks all the time and the conversation
was always like that
and so I can see your point I don't know
when to I I I'm not sure exactly if that
will leads to them almost like dropping
the web UI entirely just focusing on
desktop I still think it there is some
value to have like something that can
chip with the demon right the desktop
will always be separating so and the web
UI can always shift even because it's a
web app and and one of the selling
points in the past was also see I can
even the dashboard or like the FS it's
an application on my PFS and can be
divided in pieces and for multiple
places and so there is like all of those
bits of conversation that we had in the
past which we haven't have in the last
year like we now do other demos like
fear path and so on if you amazed people
so I yeah yeah I mean that this useful
backstory because then we can sort of
say if desktop does the job of amazing
people about ipfs then web UI is no
longer burdened with that and we can
also say that pier pad is the canonical
example app for here's how you use it as
an application yep sure Kyle oh sorry
yeah no I just wanted to just throw in
really quickly to that um I mean this is
like a little bit beyond the
conversation so I'm just gonna be really
quick but when we make if we make the
application we're like a proper desktop
app but we have to understand there are
three contexts that people are gonna be
using this with as people are different
like context for using ipfs right so one
of them is using IP LD and it's like I
think
is a database right so we need to have
like away for like people to manipulate
like dag objects and stuff like that
right some sort of a in a manipulation
interface um you know for more like a
database level style interface and then
for people that want to use you know I
believe s for distributed web for web
browsers you know like they have some
kind of a window that comes up that like
loads that web pages or something like
that and that the security origin you
know web applications and stuff right
and then there's the idea of like our IP
best for archive enemy and storage and
like distribution of files and stuff and
that's when you start looking more like
something that BitTorrent can do right
like you me maybe you look like a
BitTorrent client in that context right
like where you have like a you know like
like files you're seeding or you know
stuff like that right so that like you
know if the application does sort of
evolve beyond what it is right now like
it's important to keep in mind that
there those three use cases are pretty
predominant and that they're probably
gonna have pretty different interfaces
that could be rolled into the same
interface but like you know they're
different you know they're not all gonna
be like the same structure whereas right
now I think like in correct me if I'm
wrong but like that the - that sort of
IP bus station it really is just sort of
like the file side of that right like
the archiving side of that right um so
you know because of some opportunities
to start really playing around with like
interfacing with like some more advanced
functionality of this technology yeah I
think I think web UI as David just
mentioning if it came from the like wow
factor origins that includes a basic dag
Explorer so you paste in a hash in it
it'll show you the data behind that hash
and then you can link through to any of
the links in that IP LD node which is
neat and so one of the issues that I've
raised on the PM is is I peeled the
Explorer this kind of dag universe
browser and that was funding one of the
initial description Docs for this style
at this project so yeah absolutely
like that's kind of ass area one yeah so
a fully fledged desktop app would be
really useful to be a place to hold that
then there's this trade-off of do we do
this point about ease of deployment like
if we can
we can deploy all these things as web
applications should they just should we
just rebuild web UI to be a lot better
but stick to that fundamental deployment
target but then the trade-off it again
is well with a desktop app we have
control of we have more control the
browser does if the browser gave us all
the api's we need to build a really
powerful web UI right now then we this
core would have been a lot shorter
because the the first half of the call
was about you know the missing web you
eyes and coils chats with DAP people and
browser people so there's a strong
argument for making desktop the
all-singing all-dancing vision of what
web UI was supposed to be but if you go
far enough down that line you end up
building a kind of workbench thing that
you could point to any remote ipfs node
and manage it as well and then it's like
well doing which do we have enough
energy to also build a web UI or should
we just make sure that things are
modular enough that someone who's
suitably motivated can construct a
minimal web UI out of the beat pieces
that we build if they so wish yeah well
I mean you know for the most I would say
most of this interface could be built
inside an existing web browser I mean
really it's just all the heavy lifting
is the API interface ipfs anyway of it
yeah the only thing that you can't get
is the bundling or you can get like the
ipfs for gsib best installed in such a
way that like it sort of fully works and
within the context of that browser and
but you have to install something anyway
so then so far you may have like well
but you could actually make most of the
interface a web interface I mean and
just put it in a desktop application but
it's fundamentally just a web
application and it would more or less
work the same whether it was on IP best
at i/o in you could go that direction
the only thing you can't do is the web
browser stuff well you can't do a web
browser inside the web browser
do-do-do-do-do I'm feeling like I myself
and Coyle have dominated this chat some
more I don't know if I know that Lydell
has opinions if he me yeah hello a quick
comment about the bundling issue
it seems like the future trajectory of
IP n s is as sort of a version manifest
that you can distribute full application
bundles like this on top up to some
degree he could it essentially release
IP NS manifest for a stable version of
the application set and then update
dynamically over time utilizing that to
allow all the clients to pull as they
feel ready to update and then that would
go with the web UI implementation
allowing that to update rather than it
being bundled with a daemon and
completely static based on that fun way
I think I think people were talking
perhaps about bundling echo ipfs teaming
with a with an interface but I'd say I
take your point without guiness that
there is some mechanism for updating
things you know we can we can launch
updates and that wasn't I wasn't quite
there I was interested in vitals
thoughts on did you have any opinions on
this scoping question do you have any
opinions I think what desktop should be
what web UI should be yeah the problem
with with web UI is that people like to
put it behind nginx and expose it to the
public Internet that is why it's hard
coded to only work on the local host
which in turn means that we have at
least one topic about this a week on
bread under discuss so that's that's the
UX problem or maybe that's a
communication documentation problem
maybe it would be solved by web UI
detecting it's running not from the
local host and displaying some kind of
part time right and that way we would
just not have this question I think
asks over and over again going back to
this sculpting I think the the the main
problem with defining what IP first the
desktop is is that a lot of people have
a preference to have a small application
that just controls the daemon and shows
the current notes that status is it is
it online how many peers it's connected
to and actually that's all and just
little icon in the tray on my new bar on
our six and I understand that and I
understand that there's a deeper
sentiment behind that which means that
such a small application communicates
that ipfs is lean and fast and things
like that
if the fear of making this why provided
by actavis desktop a little to bigger on
taking more percentage of the screen
means that people it may change
perception of people well when people
install ipfs desktop and they see that
it's huge like SQL explorer right at the
price application they may get skittish
and especially if people install IPS
desktop and they see in network monitor
that there are kilobytes of data going
in and out because right now the HD is
enabled by default and your notice the
HD server I think those things compound
and may scare people away and no matter
how nice you you I will be we no one
will care because people will like shut
it down
want enable it to running in the
background and I think that's the main
sentiment behind keeping I give us
desktop small but my opinion personally
is that it
does not need to be small it's just by
default when it starts with your system
it should be an icon in the tray on menu
bar and when you press on that icon that
initial smallest status should be small
anything else all the icons like icon
for file browser icons for Pierre Pierre
list and like stuff with map all those
things and configuration screen those
things can be maybe not full screen but
you can take a lot more screen estate
it's just like I kinda Indic between
those two approaches because I
understand that the initial UI should be
compact and I understand why people have
a strong opinion why it should be
compact it's just a pure aesthetics and
it's a lot of internalized like
interface aesthetics that people have
and people just don't people have a
specific expectation of from
applications and that's just my idea
that I can we can make it work together
no super good I think this is my
fundamental point is that there isn't an
easy answer to this and we're gonna have
to make some trade-offs and I want us to
make them as a group and I want us to
decide them really soon and we don't
have to commit to them forever but we
have to commit to them for one like
product iteration life cycle so that we
can release some really good apps that
at least we are clear which trade-offs
we've made and we can test them out and
we can get some feedback on them and go
from there raising his virtual hand
David's got a virtual tiny little hand
I'm also before David jumps in I'm also
aware that we have almost out of time
and so I'm gonna let David speak but not
for very long
I do
yeah by the way did you see my flashing
yes no no it's really missed it okay so
I think this conversation will always
lead to the conversation of I doing user
research and I figure out how people
interact with a PFS which takes a lot of
time so I definitely agreed that we need
to make a decision soon and the decision
isn't it to be what each app should do
web UI station and companion it's more
how can we converge the interfaces and
make it pluggable so that we can add
more features for example I know the
technique when he designed or when he
redesign ipfs desktop he made it very
easy for someone to go there and add
another pane and like so you can add
another pane add another like initially
there was no pain for pinning and it was
easy to add another element on the Left
bar and in the pain to control the
pinning on the demon until getting to
that level did that too that in the web
UI will be extremely beneficial as well
because then people can customize it as
they want and then when once we have all
those modules like all of those features
that you can plug and play into your web
UI session or companion then we can
decide which modules stay in which
version in and with the user research
with user feedback then we can decide
exactly which ones should stay in each
part
go ahead Howie I respectfully disagree I
think I think that sounds good
I think clickability always sounds great
I think we will make we can make some
really good simple apps if we know who
we're building apps for this is why I'm
not looking for lots and lots of user
research at this stage but I am looking
for us as a group to own a set of user
stories for each app where we say you
know we're gonna build this app for
Gateway admins and we're gonna build
that app before new users if you want a
desktop experience
and from there like just come up with a
short list of features that each ones
needs to do a really like seamless ipfs
experience and not just invent a bunch
of features that are plug-and-play but
like just make a good simple experience
for each use case and then go from there
okay so I would suggest that given that
approach to almost create new projects
like instead of reshuffling what is the
intention of the web UI
given that the users now I used to have
the web UI by default on their IP
Testament and they are used at least
suprem admin control on their demon if
we decide to design like a new dashboard
for knelled
admins which i think then my data fest
cluster team would be also super
interested on that then almost like I
don't know call it the admin dashboard
or the cluster dashboard something like
that so that that keeps clear the
intention all that dashboard and as we
don't have a conversation when a year
from now asking what is this you know
where you I my point my point my simply
just am we shouldn't leave it to other
people to like if we make everything
really pluggable and modular and then
it's like go make your own dashboard
like I'm happy to get to that utopian
future but we won't get there unless we
present some really coherent simple apps
first super cool ladies and gentlemen we
are now over our meeting so if anyone
wants to dip out now is a good time it
would be nice to chat I get to an end
wreak a little more so yeah the question
for a guitar in Henrique was did you
have any feelings about all this stuff
that other people just spoke too much
and we didn't give you any airtime it's
okay to not feel like you have any
strong opinions on this stuff right now
and be forever mean not yet okay that's
one I'm just like to listen you're all
and have some opinion
right there very good Henrique I think a
bit more about it and then I'll
absolutely perfect
no worries I just wanted to make sure
you had you guys had a chance so the
only other thing on my mind is okay ours
and we can very quickly say we all feel
slightly behind on them and that's
totally alright we're in the same boat
but more pressingly we also need to
starts pecking out our okay ours for the
next quarter hooray
but if we are all behind on our existing
okay as that makes pecking the next
court as okay I was really easy cuz it's
probably gonna look somewhat similar to
the existing ones so we don't need to
chat about that a huge amount now apart
from to all like emotionally bond over
our shared mild panic and instead like
let's have another call at this time
next week and the subject of that call
will largely be around let's come up
with the scope of our okay ours for the
next quarter so that we can be ahead and
so matza won't bless off in like four
weeks time when we haven't done it
quickly when is the end of the okay ours
just right I was assuming at the end of
the month that as a total
assumption yeah yeah I got like a quick
announcement from David seems that David
created this skull and he cannot start
another one while this one is running so
we are blocking his other code
alright let's wrap it up done so just
yeah I think I think either we switch to
a different URL or we just call it a day
and we think going I totally
I was gonna say if anyone wants to call
him he think just invite us to one
otherwise let's see you next week
sounds good all right make sure to check
those issues on the github because we
had a very good back and forth today
already and we would appreciate some
sanity check also all that much thank
you